Tick-Tock
A Basic Clock App that gives time, can set alarms, timers and be used as stopwatch whenever required using time header files and graphics in C Language for school project.
First, We used the time() function that gives us time since epoch, which is 1st January 1970 A.D. 00:00:00 UTC.
We converted the time which is in seconds to years, days, minutes, and seconds which automatically tells us the current time in UTC since the timer started from 00:00:00 UTC.
But the years and days obtained this way is inconsistent due to the existence of leap years. But we can safely ignore that inconsistency as all we need is the hour, minutes and seconds passed which counts as the time of the day.
For further continuation of the project, We would like to take those time of the day and print them in graphics mode using graphics.h header file.
graphics.h header file provides us with the necessary functions to display the time using graphics.
First, The graphics must be initialized using initgraph() function. It takes the graphdriver which is detected using DETECT, graphmode and the path to the graph driver.
Then, despite initial plans being to display the numbers by creating each individual numbers allowing us to style them ourselves, we settled to using outtextxy() function the prints the required texts in the specified co-ordinates.
We converted the time in integers to string using the sprintf() function that takes the string variable first and then the format specifiers and the integer(or other) variables similar to fprintf() replacing the file pointer to character array pointer or in simpler terms string variable.
The next thing we focused on is making the system interactive. But using getch() or any other input commands pauses the screen which is a hassle.SO to bypass that we used a function kbhit() from conio.h that returns true when keyboard is pressed. Then using a combination of kbhit() to check for input and ASCII values for entered keys we make the system interactive.
Then, we added the timer function using clock() function which returns clock ticks from the cpu that the program has been running from. It is then converted to seconds using the CLOCKS_PER_SEC Macro defined in time.h. 
But notice that the time printed in any of the example programs are trippy at best. This is due to the continuous and repeated printing and clearing of screen. To overcome this, a delay of sort must be added to the system and among various alternatives, we chose to use the delay() function form dos.h library, especially because it also has the sound function useful later of alarms and such.
This should also conclude our use of all required libraries for this project, the libraries being stdio.h, conio.h, graphics.h, time.h, string.h and dos.h .
Finally we integrated this into a main program ticktock.c and used other concepts like buffer filter and creating a function to check for exit to further refine the program.
Then we added the alarm function in the main program which stores and retrieves the user input alarm time to and from an external file that also stores the no. of alarms set to avoid unnecessary excessive checking and check if the current time corresponds to alarm time in the bakcground continuously.
A Limitation of the alarm function is that it doesnt run when the program halts either in delay or for input which causes minor bugs in the function.
Reusing the program for timer, we created a program for the stopwatch that uses a similar concept but starts and stops with the enter key.
We did so by making use of a control variable which keeps on increasing on enter press and using its modulus with 2 to switch between the required modes.
The first mode uses the basic idea of timer function to run stopwatch while the second mode changes start time to freeze the time_elapsed data so it can start again without being counted during the period it was frozen.
But due to using different data types... being clock_t and double, there was slight loss of data each time it was stopped causing it to reset back a few milliseconds.
To counter that problem, We trie to change time_elapsed to clock_t and only change the value during printing and while it didnt fix the problem completely... It did make it bearable as the time is now shifted forward a few seconds due to the latency of the input output rather than the data loss.
Moreover, The alarm was unfunctional due to the usage of int for taking hours and minutes during setting of alarm, so we changed it to double to solve that error.